---
layout: "post"
title: "Oracle Commerce CIM 11.2 Issues in EC2"
categories: oracle-commerce CIM
---

Sometimes I have to configure an all-in-one demo instance in EC2 running Oracle Commerce (ATG) on Oracle XE and there are some additional configuration changes required compared to running locally in a Vagrant VirtualBox VM. Some of these solutions have come from various channels including stackoverflow, My Oracle Support and AWS documentation. I can’t always remember the source but thanks to whoever aided me in my searches for solutions. 🙂

CIM fails on startup with the `-server option: command not found`
After installing all requisite software and running CIM I might get this error:

{% highlight bash %}
bin/dynamoEnv.sh: line 347: -server: command not found
Error: -server -Djava.security.policy=lib/java.policy 
-Datg.dynamo.home=/opt/ATG/ATG11.2/home 
-Datg.dynamo.root=/opt/ATG/ATG11.2/home/.. 
-Datg.dynamo.display= 
-Djava.protocol.handler.pkgs=atg.net.www.protocol 
-Djava.naming.factory.url.pkgs=atg.jndi.url 
-Datg.dynamo.modulepath=/opt/ATG/ATG11.2/home/.. -Xms512m -Xmx1024m -XX:MaxPermSize=128m -XX:MaxNewSize=128m 
-Datg.dynamo.server.home=CIM -Datg.dynamo.modules=CIM:DSS -Datg.dynamo.layers= 
-Datg.dynamo.root=/opt/ATG/ATG11.2/home/.. -Datg.cygwin=false atg.applauncher.dynamo.DynamoServerLauncher 
-environment /tmp/dynamoEnv18321.sh CIM:DSS -classPathModules CIM:DSS failed
{% endhighlight %}

Adding debugging to the dynamoEnv.sh before line 347 reveals `JAVA_VM=-server`. If I echo the same on the command line its set. Logging out and in still results in the same setting. I tried commenting out various source options in the /home/ec2-user/.bash_profile that have been added for Oracle XE and Endeca configuration and eventually the `JAVA_VM` is unset on login. The configuration causing the issue is adding the WebLogic environment setup to the profile. Removing that resolves the issues and `JAVA_VM` is unset on login.

Remove this line if you have it:

`source $WL_HOME/server/bin/setWLSEnv.sh`

In the dynamoEnv.sh script if JAVA_VM is unset it will be set to ATGJRE, which should also be set in the bash profile.

CIM fails with `ORA-01882: timezone region not found`

By default an EC2 instance is configured with the UTC timezone which causes the error above when running CIM. Interactively you will just get a connection failure when testing the datasource connection. Look to the CIM logs for more details:

{% highlight bash %}
**** Error    Tue Jan 26 06:07:58 +00:00 2016    1453788478746    
atg.cim.worker.databaseconfig.TestJdbcConnectionValidator    ORA-01882: timezone region not found
**** Error    Tue Jan 26 06:07:58 +00:00 2016    1453788478746    
atg.cim.worker.databaseconfig.TestJdbcConnectionValidator        
java.sql.SQLException: atg.service.resourcepool.ResourcePoolException: 
java.sql.SQLException: ORA-00604: error occurred at recursive SQL level 1
**** Error    Tue Jan 26 06:07:58 +00:00 2016    1453788478746    
atg.cim.worker.databaseconfig.TestJdbcConnectionValidator    ORA-01882: timezone region not found
{% endhighlight %}

Follow the [AWS EC2 set-time][ec2-set-time] docs to fix the issue. I normally need to change UTC to GB for an instance running in the eu-west-1 region:

Edit the clock configuration

`sudo vi /etc/sysconfig/clock`

Set the zone and turn UTC off

`ZONE=”GB”
UTC=false`

Link the timezone to the local time

`sudo ln -sf /usr/share/zoneinfo/GB /etc/localtime`

Reboot the instance and `CIM` should then connect to the database correctly and continue as normal.

[ec2-set-time]: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/set-time.html
